(pensive music)
(air whooshing)
(dramatic music)
I knew your father.
I am yet convinced that he was not of this world.
(thunder clapping)
You have his presence.
I've seen the land shining with goodness.
It's the Kingdom of Summer. and I will be its king.
Vortigern is gone. Rome is gone.
The Saecsen is here. but who will lead the fight?
My brother is high king.
Your brother commands no army of his own.
Yield your claim.
I will yet forgive if you agree to bend the knee.
(warriors grunting)
(metal clanging)
Will you follow me against the Saecsen?
We recognize Aurelius as the lawful high king.
(gentle music)
(lid clanking)
Fisher King's sword.
Your sword. the sword of a high king.
(thunder clapping)
What was it like. Merlin.
to be alone with God?
Is that who you think I was alone with?
Who else?
(creature shrieking)
I do not know if God was with me in Caer Efon
all these many years. grandfather. but I know Morgian was.
(fireballs thudding)
You would've drowned on the shores
of Sores if not for me.
And am I to thank you for this life that I have.
ignored and forgotten?
Arian. you must hurry along to your studies with Caius.
Your mother knows what's best for you.
A gift for Hengist.
Great darkness is falling upon this land.
These brothers are our only hope to stand against it.
The kings of the north shall ride to their aid.
You have my word.
(dramatic music)
(pensive music)
(air whooshing)
(pensive music continues)
(pensive string music)
(water sloshing)
(crickets chirping)
(pensive music continues)
(birds chirping)
(wanderer mumbling)
(dog growling)
Hail the wild man of the wood.
I bring you greetings from the world of men.
Your work is not finished in the land of the living.
Your salvation is at hand.
But you must go back the way you came.
I won't go back.
I won't go back. I won't go back.
Do you remember the last time you tasted wine.
warm food in your belly. Merlin Ambrosius?
How do you know my name?
Drink.
(hand thuds)
(liquid sloshing)
50 years is a long time to live on locusts and honey.
Has it been that long?
I am not going back.
Uh-huh. so you say.
I am happy as I am.
No one is happy in hell.
Leave me.
(dog barking)
(dramatic music)
I have not come to take you away.
You have carried your burden long enough.
It is time to lay it down.
(birds chirping)
(pensive music)
Burden it may be.
but it's all I have left.
No. Merlin. not all.
(dramatic music)
The time has come. my son.
to be reborn.
(dramatic music continues)
(pensive music)
(pensive music continues)
(dramatic music)
(dramatic music continues)
(pensive music)
(pensive music continues)
(dramatic music)
(dramatic music continues)
(singers vocalizing)
(singers continue vocalizing)
(pensive music)
(pensive music continues)
(hooves clopping)
(horse neighing)
(brooding music)
(warriors chattering indistinctly)
(soldier speaking in Saecsen)
(pensive music continues)
(arrow whooshing)
(suspenseful music)
(arrow thuds)
(Uther grunts)
(horse exhales)
(arrows whistling)
(arrows thudding)
(hooves clopping)
(pensive music)
(feet thudding)
(shield clattering)
Madoc's archers arrived last night.
We estimate about 2.000 with another 500 mounted.
How many are there now?
(hand thuds)
More.
(box thuds)
We grow our army by twos and threes.
and every day. a new warship arrives from Saecsenland.
Do we grow?
Some of the Dumnonii slipped away last night.
Leave the quarrels outside this tent.
Ah.
We all know the enemy is strong.
Their ranks are more numerous than our own.
It was our weakness and division
that let the barbarians gain a foothold in this land.
If we are to drive them out.
it must be by our strength and unity.
And how are we to drive out
15.000 Saecsen
with only two and a half thousand men?
(fire crackling)
(pensive music)
Hengist's arrogance will be his downfall.
(fire crackling)
(pensive music continues)
(footsteps plodding)
Take those blades over.
The boy is a fool.
5.000 could not hold that fort.
not even if they were the finest soldiers in the world.
You must talk to him.
attempt to impart some reason.
Speak if you will. I've had my fill of talk.
What are you saying?
Look around you. If we stay. we're doomed.
And if we retreat the Saecsens will rape
and pillage this land.
Let them rape and pillage.
The walls of my fortress are high.
and I intend to live to see another summer.
(footsteps plodding)
(pensive music)
(soldiers chattering indistinctly)
I didn't figure you for a coward.
(Morcant sighs)
Since when does a king need permission
to ride among his troops?
Don't lie to me. Morcant.
I do not lie.
You would abandon your brothers on the eve of battle.
I would save my people from destruction.
So should you.
A Saecsen army could never breach the walls of Tintagel.
Send your men back to their beds.
and I'll say no more of this offense.
No one commands my men but I.
(sword rasping)
(brooding music)
(horn blaring)
(hooves clopping)
(majestic music)
(hooves continue clopping)
(majestic music continues)
Faer folk.
(hooves clopping)
(dramatic music)
(dramatic music continues)
(reigns clanking)
(reigns continue clanking)
(dramatic music continues)
(pensive music)
King Aurelius.
I present to you the Lord of the North.
Greetings. my friends.
You'll find a warm welcome here.
I hear you've brought us some Saecsens to kill.
That's welcome enough.
Steward.
Battle chief.
(reigns clanking)
(pensive music continues)
(feet thudding)
Are we late to the battle?
The enemy's before us. not behind.
(fire crackling)
I heard the Faery of the north are great warriors.
Did the Saecsens take your arm?
(hand thuds)
No. it was my daughter's husband.
(Custennin laughing)
(hand thudding)
(footsteps plodding)
(pensive music continues)
My Lord. there's someone waiting for you.
(cloth rustling)
Mother.
What are you doing here?
It's not safe.
I've come with some brothers from the shrine of St. Joseph
to ease the pain of the wounded
and the passage of the dying.
(wind howling)
(fire crackling)
(body thudding)
What is it. Hawk?
Not long ago. you offered me the Fisher King's sword.
I would gladly take it up now.
I did not bring it.
I have offered that sword to each
of the three great men in my life.
Your grandfather refused it.
Your father refused it. and you refused it.
I have always believed you were meant to be high king.
Your father prophesied it. Hafgan declared it.
(wind howling)
(fire crackling)
Perhaps they saw through me to another.
And perhaps. perhaps you were meant
to wield a different weapon.
(metal clanging)
(utensils clanking)
(footsteps plodding)
(pensive music)
(pensive music continues)
King Gorlas's daughter.
(liquid sloshing)
(pitcher clanking)
Does your brother know?
My brother has more important matters to attend to.
as do we all.
(cup thuds)
(brooding music)
(soldiers chattering indistinctly)
The river is too far and too deep.
It's not too far on horseback.
and it's not too deep if it's unguarded.
As soon as we march our armies north.
Hengist will turn to us.
No. he won't because the main body of our war host
will already have engaged him.
(hand rasping)
Here.
(fire crackling)
Make an easy target.
Make him commit his war host.
Aye.
And I will lead the mounted troops to the river.
cross. and attack Hengist from behind.
You?
It must be me.
If you can kill the Bretwalda himself.
his armies will collapse.
Then you think it's a good plan. King Gorlas?
I think it's a desperate plan and foolish.
(fire crackling)
But I can see none better.
Then the die is cast.
(pensive music)
Tomorrow. we make war
for Britain.
For Britain.
(Custennin laughs)
(commanders chattering indistinctly)
And what happens when we cannot hold the river long enough
before Aurelius makes his crossing?
We won't need that long.
just long enough
for Myrddin to remember his calling.
(fire crackling)
(pensive music)
(footsteps plodding)
(soldiers chattering indistinctly)
You've kept your promise
and brought us the men in the north.
but it isn't enough.
What does Aurelius say?
His new faith has clouded his judgment.
He's waiting on a miracle.
And why do you tell me this?
Because I think you can give him one.
(pensive music)
(pensive music continues)
They say that when the battle awen is upon you.
you become an unstoppable force.
Ride with us into battle tomorrow.
We face 15.000 Saecsen.
(pensive music continues)
What do you ask?
I know what I ask.
If I lead you into victory. Uther.
the men of Britain will proclaim me king.
(fire crackling)
(pensive music continues)
Yes.
But at least there will be a Britain.
(pensive music continues)
(footsteps plodding)
(soldiers chattering indistinctly)
(soldiers continue chattering indistinctly)
Jesu before me. Jesu behind.
(pensive music)
Not by my power. Jesu. but thine.
Jesu before me. Jesu behind.
The men are ready for battle.
Not by my power. Jesu. but thine.
For the soul of Britain.
the battle has already begun.
(fire crackling)
(pensive music continues)
Jesu before me. Jesu behind.
Not by my power. Jesu. The power is thine.
(footsteps plodding)
(cart clattering)
A war camp is no place for a lady such as yourself.
A lady is never safer than with the battle chief
of Britain watching over her.
(basket thuds)
Forgive me if I've overstepped.
No.
Ygerna.
(footsteps plodding)
(Uther sighs)
(footsteps continue plodding)
(Gorlas exhales)
(footsteps plodding)
(soldiers laughing)
(Uther sighs)
Oh. Jesu behind.
Jesu before me. Jesu behind.
He seeks our deliverance from God-
Jesu behind.
when he could so easily just give it
to us with his own hands.
Not by my power. Jesu. but thine.
(Custennin speaking Atlantean)
(Charis speaking Atlantean)
Jesu behind.
Jesu before me. Jesu behind.
That is why he seeks deliverance from God
and not by his own hands.
Jesu behind.
Oh. old one-eye approaches.
You are Lady of the Lake?
And you are King Gorlas of Tintagel. yes?
This is my daughter. Ygerna.
I would entrust her into your care tomorrow.
Can you help bind wounds and fetch water for the dying?
I will do whatever I can to aid the fight.
(soldiers chattering indistinctly)
(soldiers continue chattering indistinctly)
(hood rasping)
(fire crackling)
(fire continues crackling)
In the days of your father's fathers.
before the treachery. before the conspiracy.
when the eagle still flew above the emperor's wall
and the Roman peace still held in these lands.
a babe was fetched from the waters beneath Yr Widdfa.
and that babe a bard.
and that bard a prophet.
Hear then. if you will.
the vision of Taliesin Ap Elphin Ap Gwyddno Garanhir.
and this is the way of it.
(gentle string music)
(fire crackling)
(gentle string music continues)
♪ Far to the west across the sea ♪
♪ An everlasting land ♪
♪ A maiden faced the god ♪
♪ Of her fathers in the sand ♪
♪ She saw her home destroyed ♪
♪ Claimed by war and by the sea ♪
♪ A wanderer forlorn ♪
♪ In a world that knows no peace ♪
(fire crackling)
(gentle music continues)
♪ Far to the north in Gwynedd Land ♪
♪ The Cymry's ancient home ♪
♪ A poet faced the god ♪
♪ Of his fathers in the stones ♪
♪ He saw his home destroyed ♪
♪ Claimed by war and by the sky ♪
♪ A wanderer forlorn ♪
♪ Seeking truth among the lies ♪
♪ Ooh. ah. ooh. ah ♪
♪ Ooh. ah. ah ♪
♪ Ooh ♪
♪ Children of Ynys Prydain now ♪
♪ From every hill and glen ♪
♪ Abandoned by our fathers' gods ♪
♪ And scorned by mournful men ♪
♪ We've seen our homes destroyed ♪
♪ Now from hill and glen alight ♪
♪ United now. we rise ♪
♪ Up like dragons in the night ♪
♪ Ooh. ah. ooh. ah ♪
♪ Ooh. ah. ah ♪
♪ Ooh. ah ♪
♪ Seize your sword and join the fray ♪
♪ Our hallowed ground we'll free ♪
♪ Rebuke the Saecsen gods ♪
♪ Drive their war host to the sea ♪
♪ Never again our homes destroyed ♪
♪ Our names will live in song ♪
♪ When the hero's cup is raised ♪
♪ Let our victory wine be strong ♪
♪ Ooh. ah. ooh. ah ♪
♪ Ooh. ah. ah ♪
♪ Ooh. ah ♪
♪ Ah. ooh. ah ♪
♪ Ooh. ah. ooh. ah ♪
♪ Ah. ooh ♪
(fire crackling)
(fire continues crackling)
(instrument clanks)
There is a land shining with goodness.
where each man protects his brother's dignity as his own.
where war and want have ceased.
and all races live under the same law of love and honor.
It is a land bright with truth.
where a man's word is his pledge
and falsehood is banished.
where children sleep safely in their mother's arms
and never know fear or pain.
a land where kings extend their hands in justice
rather than reach for the sword.
where mercy. kindness.
(pensive music)
and compassion
flow like deep water over the land.
and men revere virtue.
(gentle hopeful music)
revere truth. revere beauty
above comfort. pleasure.
and selfish gain.
a land where peace reigns in the hearts of men.
Faith blazes like a beacon from every hill.
love like a fire from every heart.
where the True God is worshiped
and his ways acclaimed by all.
(hopeful music continues)
There is a golden realm of light. my friends.
and it is called the Kingdom of Summer.
(majestic music)
(majestic music continues)
(spear thuds)
(wind howling)
(birds squawking)
(wind continues howling)
(pensive music)
(reigns clinking)
(saddle thuds)
(hooves clopping)
(tools clanking)
(soldiers chattering indistinctly)
(tools rasping)
(pensive music continues)
(soldiers chattering indistinctly)
Nice work.
(hand thudding)
Good luck.
(pensive music continues)
(Ygerna sniffing)
Be strong. Be resilient.
(Ygerna exhales)
(hand thuds)
This is an honor. Father.
to ride with you into battle.
And we both earn names the bards shall speak of
throughout the ages.
(helmet thuds)
(armor clanking)
And may God in heaven deliver us.
(pensive music continues)
Sire. allow me.
Your song last night. I've never heard anything like it.
Greater rebuke you could not give me.
I mean no rebuke.
On the contrary.
I've never seen the souls of men stirred so.
But that is the rebuke. oh. King.
I have failed you. Aurelius.
Failed?
I sit at the head of an army of your making.
While I've been playing kingmaker and politician.
while I've been wallowing in my misery
for a lifetime or more.
while I was busy being king in Maridunum.
Fhain-brother in the north. (sighs)
and dreaming away my youth.
I should have been focused on my first calling.
(dramatic music)
my true calling.
I am Merlin Emrys.
son of Taliesin Ap Elphin Ap Gwyddno.
and I am the last true bard of the Island of the Mighty.
I will uphold you in battle. as the bards of the old did.
(pensive music)
The fate of Britain ever rests
in the hands of the Great Light.
(fire crackling)
(pensive music continues)
(gentle music)
(kettle clanking)
(water sloshing)
Then I'll see you in the battle is won.
(sword rasping)
(sword thuds)
If your prayer should fail.
(pensive music)
(footsteps plodding)
(sword clanking)
(sword rasping)
(pensive music continues)
(hooves clopping)
(hooves continue clopping)
(pensive music continues)
(horses whisking)
(footsteps plodding)
(horses exhaling)
(pensive music continues)
(soldier speaking indistinctly)
(hooves clopping)
(horse exhales)
Are we not riding with them. Lord?
No.
We must fight a different battle.
(hooves clopping)
(pensive music continues)
(hooves continue clopping)
(horse neighing)
(pensive music continues)
Men of the Island of the Mighty.
long have your tribes fought alone
against the Irish. Pict.
Scoti. and the Saecsen.
at times. against each other.
East and West. North and South.
Cymry and Brigante.
Cornovii and Demetae.
Belgae and Dumnonii.
Since Bran the Blessed. you have only known peace
when it was given to you.
You have only known unity
when it was forced upon you by stronger kings.
but today. you stand together.
You stand as Britons.
You stand as one. or you will surely fall.
(reigns thudding)
(pensive music)
(pensive music continues)
(sword rasping)
Behold. the Sword of Magnus Maximus.
emperor of Britain and Rome.
who held this land against the barbarians so long ago.
(majestic music)
Now behold your battle chief.
You must hold the line. brother.
You must hold Britain.
(sword clanking)
The sword is Britain.
(pensive music continues)
(sword rasping)
For Aurelius.
For Britain.
(swords rasping)
(soldiers cheering)
(dramatic music)
(horns blaring)
(brooding music)
(birds squawking)
(horns blaring)
(brooding music continues)
(soldiers yelling)
(soldiers continue yelling)
(brooding music continues)
(horns blaring)
(horse neighing)
(soldiers yelling)
(soldiers continue yelling)
(brooding music continues)
(horns blaring)
(horses neighing)
(hooves clopping)
(soldiers continue yelling)
(soldier speaking Saecsen)
(Hengist speaking Saecsen)
(metal clanging)
Hold your formations.
(shields clattering)
Hold.
(soldiers chattering indistinctly)
(shield clattering)
(sword thuds)
(body thudding)
Any man who runs. dies.
(soldiers chattering indistinctly)
Hold. Hold.
Hold your formations. men of Britain. please.
Hold.
(soldiers chattering indistinctly)
Hold the line.
(brooding music continues)
Hold.
♪ Ooh. ah. ooh. ah ♪
♪ Ah. ooh. ah ♪
(determined music)
♪ Ooh. ah. ooh. ah ♪
♪ Ah. ooh. ah ♪
(determined music continues)
♪ Ooh. ah. ooh. ah ♪
♪ Ah ♪
Well done. Uther.
(brooding music)
(Hengist speaking Saecsen)
(horn blaring)
(soldiers yelling)
(feet pattering)
(soldiers continue yelling)
(brooding music continues)
(soldiers yelling)
(feet pattering)
(soldiers continue yelling)
(feet continue pattering)
(brooding music continues)
Belgae. ready yourselves.
Now.
(dramatic music)
Ya. ya.
(horses neighing)
(hooves clopping)
(soldier speaking in Saecsen)
(soldiers yelling)
Where is he going?
Jesu before us. Jesu behind.
(Custennin speaking Atlantean)
(soldiers yelling)
(feet pattering)
(Custennin speaking Atlantean)
(soldiers yelling)
(soldier retching)
Hold.
(soldiers yelling)
(feet pattering)
Hold.
Uther.
Archers.
(bows creaking)
(feet pattering)
(soldiers yelling)
Do it.
(tense music)
(soldiers yelling)
(soldiers continue yelling)
(tense music continues)
Now.
(shields clattering)
(arrows whooshing)
(bodies thudding)
(soldiers yelling)
(shields thudding)
(dramatic music continues)
(metal clanging)
(soldiers yelling)
(flesh squelching)
(metal continues clanging)
(soldier groaning)
Hold the line. hold the line.
Don't go back.
Push.
(Custennin speaking Atlantean)
(horse neighing)
(metal clanging)
(fighters grunting)
Go. Take them down.
(sword thudding)
(Gorlas roars)
(soldiers yelling)
They are breaking through!
(horse neighing)
(soldiers yelling)
(hand thudding)
(ax thudding)
(metal clanging)
(soldiers yelling)
Hold the line.
(horse neighing)
(body thudding)
(brooding music)
(sword rasping)
Push them back. push them back.
(hooves clopping)
(horses neighing)
(metal clanging)
(horse neighing)
(body thudding)
(metal clanging)
Well done. battle chief. well done.
(brooding music continues)
(feet pattering)
(soldiers yelling)
(feet continue pattering)
(horses neighing)
(metal clanging)
(hooves clopping)
(pensive music)
(hooves continue clopping)
(pensive music continues)
I would urge you to be cautious.
(sword rasping)
(hooves clopping)
(soldiers groaning)
(cart thuds)
(soldiers continue groaning)
(nurses chattering indistinctly)
(soldiers groaning)
(pensive music continues)
Ygerna. Ygerna.
(soldier groaning)
Hold the line.
(metal clanging)
(metal continues clanging)
(soldiers yelling)
(soldiers continue yelling)
(sword whooshing)
(hooves clopping)
(blood squelching)
(horse neighing)
(swords rasping)
(soldiers yelling)
(swords continues rasping)
(soldiers continue yelling)
(Uther grunting)
(dramatic music)
(metal clanging)
(sword rasping)
(body thudding)
(dramatic music continues)
(Uther yelling)
Great light. deliver your people.
Great light. preserve our king.
Great light.
we are lost in unless we find ourselves in you.
(pensive music)
Will your great light save you
if you have the power to save yourself. my love?
Jesu before me. Jesu behind.
Not by my power. Jesu. but thine.
Why does the champion of Summer devote himself
to prayer when the battle is before him?
Why does he let others suffer when his sword arm is strong?
(pensive music continues)
Well. you know suffering. don't you?
(brooding music)
Morgian.
At last. my dear nephew.
I'd begun to fear you had lost your wits.
(metal clanging)
(soldiers yelling)
(sword rasping)
Father. (grunts)
(hooves clopping)
(sword rasping)
(metal clanging)
(soldiers yelling)
(Tewdrig laughs)
(metal clanging)
(soldiers yelling)
(soldier grunting)
(blood squelching)
(yelling)
(sword rasping)
(Dunaut groaning)
(shield thudding)
(metal clanging)
(soldiers yelling)
(soldier yelling indistinctly)
Why do you not speak. my love?
Does fear bind your tongue?
You are right when you speak of fear. Morgian.
I do fear you full well.
And yet. if not for me.
you would have been killed long ago.
I interceded for you. nephew.
You owe me a debt.
You owe me a father.
(tense music)
(metal clanging)
Taliesin's death is bitter to me.
Hmm.
My arrow was never meant for him.
Those are the first true words
you've ever spoken.
Charis never spared a thought for me.
savior of her people.
I would've given the world than everything in it
to have Taliesin smile at me the way he smiled at her.
to have Avallach smile at me the way he smiled at her.
to have anyone smile at me the way they smiled at her.
But I was young.
Such things mattered to me then.
What matters to you now. Mistress of Lies?
Hmm. you. nephew.
Your unreasoning hatred of the old ways.
of your own past and power. cannot continue.
It will not be tolerated. Merlin.
But it does not have to be this way.
Britain does not have to perish.
The Saecsens do not have to prevail.
My God will preserve us.
(laughs) Your God.
Or your Aurelius? (laughs)
Did you think your juvenile plan would not be known to us?
Did you think we would not be prepared?
(pensive music continues)
(hooves clopping)
(hooves continue clopping)
(water splashing)
(water continues splashing)
(pensive music continues)
(soldiers yelling)
(swords rasping)
(soldiers continue yelling)
(horse neighing)
(water splashing)
(sword rasping)
(hooves clopping)
(soldiers yelling)
(feet thudding)
(tense music)
(soldiers yelling)
(tense music continues)
(soldiers continue yelling)
Just as your witch mother foresaw.
(soldiers yelling)
(water splashing)
(foot thudding)
(sword rasping)
Loose the arrows.
My men are down there.
The witch foresaw their deaths.
You will be rewarded.
(soldiers yelling)
(sword rasping)
Today. Britain dies.
(soldiers yelling)
(water splashing)
(metal clanging)
(water continues splashing)
(Lot grunts)
(bows clattering)
(suspenseful music)
(gentle music)
(feet thudding)
(grass rustling)
(pensive music)
Great light. uphold us.
The waste of it all. the senselessness.
How many lives must be lost
before you accept the power you were born to wield?
Great light. uphold it.
Great light.
Great darkness.
What separates day from night?
Only a handful of hours. turn of the earth.
(Myrddin speaking faintly)
We are not so different. you and I.
(pensive music continues)
(soldiers yelling)
(metal clanging)
(soldiers continue yelling)
(metal continues clanging)
We're overrun.
Tell them to retreat. or we're lost.
(Uther grunting)
(sword rasping)
You know what you must do.
Why do you falter?
(pensive music continues)
They need you. Merlin.
They need you now.
(sword rasping)
Feel the power in your arm.
(heartbeat thudding)
(sword rasping)
Feel the strong steel in your hand.
(brooding music)
Take me up.
(sword speaking faintly)
Remember what they did to me. my love.
(heartbeat thudding)
(brooding music continues)
(air whooshing)
(metal clanging)
(soldiers yelling)
(soldiers continue yelling)
(metal continues clanging)
(horse neighing)
(sword rasping)
Meurig!
(soldiers yelling)
(metal clanging)
(head thudding)
(fist thudding)
(body thudding)
(soldiers yelling)
(metal clanging)
(foot thudding)
(fist thudding)
(blood squelching)
(Custennin screaming)
Charis.
(knife clanking)
(dramatic music)
(soldiers yelling)
(metal clanging)
Close the ranks!
(soldiers grunting)
(fists thudding)
(swords rasping)
They are dying. Myrddin.
Britain is dying.
The vision of your father is dying.
(swords rasping)
(dramatic music continues)
Your battle chief is dying.
and your king is dead.
Great light. forgive me.
You do not need forgiveness. just the will to power.
and when you have vanquished your foes.
we will rule together.
the king and queen of the Kingdom of Summer.
Jesu!
(fists and feet thudding)
(heartbeat thudding)
(pensive music)
(heartbeat continues thudding)
(pensive music continues)
(Myrddin inhales)
(Morgian bellowing)
(water sloshing)
(water continues sloshing)
I've already been baptized.
I know. my son.
It's been a long time since you were clean.
(hand rasping)
(gentle music)
Your work is not yet finished. Merlin.
The great darkness we've long feared
has gained a foothold on the Island of the Mighty.
(hand rasping)
(gentle music continues)
You should have let me die.
You sang your life into me.
Would that you had remained instead.
I had my time.
I completed my work.
You. you were my vision. my son.
I have failed.
Then you must start again.
You must go back the way you came.
What does that mean?
That is for you to discover.
(water sloshing)
(gentle music continues)
It's a father's right to give his son his first shave.
That right was stolen from me
by the one you fear most.
Morgian.
And yet the Swift Sure Hand has given us this moment
to make right that loss.
(pensive music)
(blade clanking)
(hand rasping)
(blade rasping)
(water sloshing)
Let her go. my son.
Go forth. Meet the day.
(pensive music continues)
(water splashing)
(birds chirping)
(water sloshing)
It's time for us both to leave this place.
One comes whose prayers have carried you
further than you know.
We'll dress you in clothes appropriate to your rank.
I'd rather stay here with you. Father.
(hand thuds)
I have ever been with you. Merlin.
Myrddin.
(knees thudding)
(Pelleas weeping)
(pensive music)
I am not the king of the Summer Kingdom. Morgian.
and you are only the queen of air and darkness.
(sword thudding)
(pensive music continues)
You fool. still clinging to the promises of a God
who has abandoned you.
We're not abandoned. not yet.
(horn blaring)
(heartbeat thudding)
(soldiers yelling)
(metal clanging)
(horn blaring)
(soldiers chattering indistinctly)
(pensive music continues)
Hengist is dead.
(soldiers cheering)
(hooves clopping)
Orcadians.
(swords rasping)
(soldiers screaming)
For Britain.
(hooves clopping)
(dramatic music)
(soldiers yelling)
(hooves continue clopping)
(metal clanging)
(dramatic music continues)
(hooves clopping)
(metal clanging)
(soldiers yelling)
(dramatic music)
(Morgian exhales)
One battle. one war.
men's heart remain unchanged.
And yet...
(Morgian whimpering)
When I consider what you must have sacrificed.
only to fail-
I sacrificed nothing.
(tense music)
Mm.
My power comes as easily as yours. nephew.
and as your father's.
I will see you again. Myrddin.
(pensive music)
I'll see you again. Morgian.
(brooding music)
(Morgian screaming)
(brooding music continues)
(hands thudding)
(Morgian continues screaming)
(soldiers cheering)
(hand thudding)
(soldiers continue cheering)
(sword rasping)
(hooves clopping)
(pensive music)
(hooves continue clopping)
(pensive music continues)
(sword clanking)
(hooves clopping)
(pensive music continues)
(feet thudding)
(hand thuds)
(gentle music)
(soldiers laughing)
Nice work.
(gentle music continues)
(sword rasping)
(hand thuds)
(gentle music continues)
(majestic music)
(Uther exhales)
(sword clanking)
All hail Aurelius.
High King and Pendragon of Britain.
Aurelius!
(soldiers cheering)
(soldiers continue cheering)
(hands thudding)
(gentle music)
(soldiers continue cheering)
(gentle music continues)
(soldiers cheering)
(hands thudding)
King Aurelius. Ygerna. my daughter.
(soldiers cheering)
(gentle music continues)
(hands thudding)
Is Ygerna here?
Ygerna.
(soldiers cheering)
(pensive music)
(lips smacking)
(soldiers continue cheering)
(pensive music continues)
Uther.
Oh. it's you.
What you said.
Uther!
(kings chattering indistinctly)
Oh. master.
Great light. we are not equal to this fight.
Myrddin. what is it? What have you seen?
Our doom.
(brooding music)
We all have the right. We're kings of Britain.
Oh. shut up.
This is executive council.
Don't you shut me up.
Oh. come now.
I have every right.
(kings chattering indistinctly)
I have the right to say this.
What gives her the right to the Sword of Britain?
What gives you the right?
(kings chattering indistinctly)
Quiet. quiet.
(tense music)
(kings chattering indistinctly)
This is executive council.
Don't you shut me up.
(tense music continues)
I have every right.
(kings chattering indistinctly)
Quiet. quiet.
(tense music continues)
You leave with-
Quiet.
(pensive music)
(kings chattering indistinctly)
(kings continue chattering indistinctly)
(sword rasping)
(dramatic music)
(dramatic music continues)
(singers vocalizing)
(singers continue vocalizing)
(pensive music)
(pensive music continues)
(suspenseful music)
(dramatic music)
(dramatic music continues)
(singers vocalizing)
(singers continue vocalizing)
(pensive music)